Our mission was to no
longer need the props and
to be able to hook into the contexts
to get the ability to add a new grudge.
So we can start by burning the boats and
just get rid of that.
Now keep in mind, this react memo is
probably causing more harm than good.
We're not gonna do anything about it.
But we're just going to call it out, the
fact of the matter is like this is going
to rerender because it's hooking into
every time that context object changes.
And there's crazy stuff you could do, like
you could separate out dispatch to one
context and the state and another,
and only hook, it's not worth it.
Again, like wait until you actually have a
real performance problem before you start
overengineering.
The whole idea is to
make things less complex.
So we removed that.
And now we just need to
get access to addGrudge.
So we'll say const addGrudge
= React.useContext,
And now we swap this out over here.
And that should do the trick,
let's find out together.
And it's added to the page.
All right, so let's just take a look at
that application component one more time.
And I showed it to you, but
I just wanna point it out.
From all of the complication that we had
when we started with the use state and
the beginning state of this application
where it was managing all of it,
now it is simply, okay,
what does it mean to be this application?
What are those pieces?
And those pieces can hook
into what they need to.
Now we can begin to move stuff around.
And this is really great when you're
prototyping too, because you can basically
do large-scale refactors of
the layout of the application and
not necessarily worry about all these
props getting passed through, right?
If we wanted the new grudge
form to be at the bottom or
to be inside of grudges,
I just move it there.
And it takes all of the state
management with it.
But like I said, we noticed that
there were some trade offs.
So let's just talk about it real quick and
understand what we gained and
what we lost.
We did lose those performance
optimizations that we got with
using useCallback on the dispatch.
Was it the right choice?
It's a tradeoff.
I argue that unless you are actually
solving a performance problem that exists,
maintainability and
the ability to actually add features and
be able to do refactoring
is way more important.
And I would say that, yeah,
this is a very small example, but
there might be even a tiny microcosm
in your application where you use this.
Do you need to always wrap
the entire application component?
No, right?
But if you had a bunch of components
where it's getting a little squirrely,
you might go around the kind
of highest level of that,
move that into a context,
and have the ability
to kind of move stuff around even in
that smaller part of your application.
Right?
Like Joe asked me,
does this replace it for Redux?
You might use Redux for
all the state management, but
if there is some filtering that you wanna
show in two different places, right,
that might still go to the context API.
You can use the Context API for some
of that ephemeral state as well, right?
Ascending, descending, that might
matter in different places, right?
And so if you need it in two
different parts of the tree,
it feels weird put that in Redux, right?
But it might make total sense too, because
even with Redux, like we end up with a lot
of that boilerplate around like
connect and stuff like that.
It might make sense to use them
kind of interchangeably as well.
And like I said,
this will work really well for
even that larger tree that we saw, right?
And so the idea that anything could
hook in to stuff at the top level
cleans up our code a lot.
So it's worth thinking
about the trade-offs.
Depending on the situation,
if the performance is meaningful, then no,
it's not the right choice for you.
But if it is not,
if you're measuring, right?
And you can see that it's not
really affecting performance,
then having maintainability
is totally worth it.